I was I want to call it my allowed to
call you Marty because everyone yeah
sure knows God calls me Marty Lisa -
yeah do you want me to call you mr.
Scorsese I don't know what's cutaways
Marty no please Marty to me and then I
and then so I didn't have that's how I'm
in this room this is it this is the room
this is I'm this is a way in this is
your Marty in this room okay great
that's right
dinner with Shirley Jackson I mean when
did you but you know trying to visualize
or tell a story about a writer is almost
impossible to show them when they're
doing their process when they're in the
middle of it when they're but when
they're working through their process is
almost impossible visually and I
wondered how you approached that in this
I mean yes you have a few shots of the
type and the type hitting which yes a
lot of fun but really there's something
else going on and it's one of the best
one of the best expressions I think in a
film of a writer and writers life well
thank you for saying that that's you
know it was interesting because what's
exciting exciting about I guess maybe
it's I don't want to say about the way I
make movies in general but you know it's
it was exciting about this process but
it also has been true of my previous
processes is that I think because I
started out working in documentary you
kind of get this understanding that so
much can be defined in the Edit room you
know and that that and to not be afraid
of that but to use that as a tool and so
we will actually are my editor David
Barker who was editor on Shirley and
also actually was editor on that was
model lovely and consulted on my other
two phones he he you know we we watched
on surely some of the early cuts and we
realized the end of the film it's really
important that you feel you have felt
where she's at with the journey of this
book and and that that the writing of
the book is so central to her and
central to her experience but we
realized that so much of the movie was
actually about relationships and we
weren't really deep into the her
relationship with the book
and it wasn't necessarily something that
was dramatized in the in the the way
that the relationship was played out in
the movie and so he had the idea of
adding this voiceover of putting
voiceover and having and hearing the
writing of the book so that you could
kind of sense where is oh that's funny
that's funny because I don't think of it
as voiceover oh yeah well good it's
great it seems to be part of a dialogue
of some kind yes yeah voiceover in there
yeah that's the thing
I'm so glad but I think that was it was
an exciting discovery and it felt like
when we when we realized that we could
do that and then Sarah wrote some
incredible words that were sort of her
idea of first drafts of different
section of hangs a man I think we we
realized that it was not only a way to
show where writing was where Shirley was
in relationship to her writing but also
where how her relationship with Rose was
playing out in the book and so that you
could feel is she getting closer what is
she using of Rose in the book and is
Rose inspiring her and so yeah so it
felt felt really central and I'm glad
that that like subconscious journey you
know played feels like it played out and
well and it's something that I was gonna
actually ask you is cuz I was thinking
how central voiceover has been to your
work you know yeah and how was there
kind of a turning point when you feel
like you started to be really drawn to
using voiceover or was that something
that you kind of you know I guess I was
wondering was there like an aha moment
when you realized what voiceover could
do and and and you know which film you
feel like you were kind of went yes you
know I think I think I could go way back
and that is that I loved storytelling
because as I said it never really came
from a culture that read books I was
taking the movies I saw films on TV I
had the terrible asthma so I couldn't go
in here but I found that stories the
voice of the narrator particularly in
British films particularly in a example
is kind Hearts and Coronets
mmm it kind of clashed with um narration
in Italian and French new-wave films ah
and right around that time I started to
make my own films clash but it seemed it
seemed to fall in place and along with
people I knew who could tell great
stories on the street corner my father
telling stories my mother the humor and
the irony as you should say or the or
the seriousness of this these some of
these stories were powerful and and
later expresses my father played and not
Goodfellas when he has to tell Bob De
Niro on the phone that Joe Pesci was
killed that's my father's voice Wow Wow
yeah telling him it was a problem well
and it's interesting too I mean this is
my first project working on a film that
has an has a not as a based on a real
human being which is so much you know in
a way it was nice I don't think I ever
felt the pressure to make it you know to
be like beholden to the real Shirley
because we were adapting this fictional
novel into but it was so wonderful to
have this whole life to draw on for
inspiration and you just realize how
much stranger and how much more complex
you know reality is in fiction and it
gives you so much you know to journey
which is exactly what I'm so it just it
boggles me when I'm watching you know
when I'm watching your movies and your
you have this great way of journeying
into also just a little bizarre
character quirks you know of your actors
that are that make it so much fun and I
was just thinking of the blueberry
muffins and the standing up from the
chair and the yeah ruin the crease that
makes sense if you've got a wardrobe
like that you have to take care of it
you gotta make sure nobody's nobody's in
the room when somebody comes in you go
put your pants on fine I had no idea why
I was like why is the crease wrinkled
everything Oh Marty oh thank you so much
it's such a pleasure to see you and to
talk to you too I just love it so much
you know I mean I want to honor your
time and but I'm also must talk to you
for three more hours
[Music]